My soul is awakened, my spirit is soaring
All true histories contain instruction; though, in some, the treasure may be hard to find.
When I feel it my duty to speak unpalatable truth, with the help of God, I will speak it.
Such humble talents as God had given me I will endeavour to put to their greatest use.
All novels are, or should be, written for both men and women to read.
It is better to arm and strengthen your hero, than to disarm and enfeeble your foe.
I would not send a poor girl into the world, ignorant of the snares that beset her path.
You may have as many words as you please, – only I can’t stay to hear them.
I’ll promise to think twice before I take any important step you seriously disapprove of.
When a lady condescends to apologise, there is no keeping one’s anger.
No one can be happy in eternal solitude.
If we can only speak to slander our betters, let us hold our tongues.
I thought Mr. Millward never would cease telling us that he was no tea-drinker.
Are you hero enough to unite yourself to one whom you know to be suspected and despised by all around you?
There must be only a very, very few men that I should like to marry and of those few it is ten to one I may never be acquainted with one.
Beauty is that quality which, next to money, is generally the most attractive to the worst kinds of men.
I am truly miserable - more so than I like to acknowledge to myself.
You will form a very inadequate estimate of a man's character, if you judge by what a fond sister says of him.
When I spend my money I like to enjoy the full value of it.
I see that a man cannot give himself up to drinking without being miserable one half his days and mad the other.
I do believe a young lady can't be too careful who she marries.
There is always a 'but' in this imperfect world.
I think your piety one of your greatest charms; but then, like all other good things, it may be carried too far.
All our talents increase in the using, and every faculty, both good and bad, strengthens by exercise.
If your wife gives you her heart, you must take it, thankfully, and use it well.
If ever I am a mother I will zealously strive against this crime of over-indulgence.
He knows he is my sun, but when he chooses to withhold his light, he would have my sky to be all darkness.
Where hope rises fear must lurk behind.
His idea of a wife is a thing to love one devotedly, and to stay at home.
Intimate acquaintance must precede real friendship.
Friends as we are, we would willingly keep your failings to ourselves - even from ourselves if we could.
It is painful to doubt the sincerity of those we love.
Life and hope must cease together.
How odd it is that we so often weep for each other’s distresses, when we shed not a tear for our own!
Adoration isn’t love.
A man must have something to grumble about.
Chess-players are so unsociable, they are no company for any but themselves.
It is a hard, embittering thing to have one's kind feelings and good intentions cast back in one's teeth.
I fear you must be very much worse than you should be, if I, a mere ordinary mortal, am, by your own confession, so vastly your superior.
Though I hate him from my heart, and should rejoice at any calamity that could befall him, I'll leave him to God.
You might as well sell yourself to slavery at once, as marry man you dislike.
I'd rather be like myself, bad as I am.
There's nothing like active employment to console the afflicted.