We wove a web in childhood, a web of sunny air
My sister's Emily's disposition was not naturally gregarious.
In Emily's nature the extremes of vigour and simplicity seemed to meet.
I can be on guard against my enemies, but God deliver me from my friends!
If you like poetry let it be first-rate; Milton, Shakespeare, Thomson, Goldsmith, Pope (if you will, though I don't admire him), Scott, Byron, Campbell, Wordsworth, and Southey.
The finest passages are always the purest, the bad are invariably revolting, you will never wish to read them over twice.
Is not the real experience of each individual very limited? And, if a writer dwells upon that solely or principally, is he not in danger of repeating himself, and also of becoming an egotist?
Imagination is a strong, restless faculty, which claims to be heard and exercised: are we to be quite deaf to her cry, and insensate to her struggles?
I avoid looking forward or backward, and try to keep looking upward.
Yesterday I went for the second time to the Crystal Palace – vast, strange, new and impossible to describe.
Yesterday I saw Mr. Thackeray. It is better, I should think, to have him for a friend than an enemy, for he is a most formidable-looking personage.
You ask about Queen Victoria's visit to Brussels. I saw her for an instant flashing through the Rue Royale in a carriage and six, surrounded by soldiers.
Conventionality is not morality. Self-righteousness is not religion.
It seemed as if my tongue pronounced words without my will consenting to their utterance: something spoke out of me over which I had no control.
I am glad you are no relation of mine.
I will say the very thought of you makes me sick.
If people were always kind and obedient to those who are cruel and unjust; the wicked people would have it all their own way.
It is a very strange sensation to inexperienced youth to feel itself quite alone in the world, cut adrift from every connection.
I desired more of practical experience than I possessed; more of intercourse with my kind, of acquaintance with variety of character, than was here within my reach.
I shall be called discontented. I could not help it: the restlessness was in my nature; it agitated me to pain sometimes.
It is in vain to say human beings ought to be satisfied with tranquility: they must have action; and they will make it if they cannot find it.
I don't think, sir, that you have a right to command me, merely because you are older than I, or because you have seen more of the world than I have.
Do you think I am an automaton? — a machine without feelings?
I care for myself. The more solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more I will respect myself.
Gentle reader, may you never feel what I then felt.
I scorn the counterfeit sentiment you offer.
If you think, from this prelude, that anything like a romance is preparing for you, reader, you never were more mistaken.
Do you expect passion, and stimulus, and melodrama? Calm your expectations; reduce them to a lowly standard.
I describe imperfect characters.
Old maids like the houseless and unemployed poor, should not ask for a place and an occupation in the world.
No mockery in this world ever sounds to me so hollow as that of being told to cultivate happiness. What does such advice mean?
I like to see flowers growing, but when they are gathered, they cease to please.
Novelists should never allow themselves to weary of the study of real life.
Better to be without logic than without feeling.