I never caused a thought of gloom / A smile of joy since I was born
Oh, my true friend! I am not lone / While thou canst speak with such a tone!
Forsake thy books, and mateless play / And, while the night is gathering grey / We'll talk its pensive hours away
No, reprobate! You are a castaway - be off, or I'll hurt you seriously!
I am now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society, be it country or town.
What vain weathercocks we are!
Proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves.
A person who has not done one half his day's work by ten o'clock runs a chance of leaving the other half undone.
I've dreamt in my life dreams that have stayed with me ever after, and changed my ideas.
The tyrant grinds down his slaves and they don't turn against him, they crush those beneath them.
Having levelled my palace, don't erect a hovel and complacently admire your own charity in giving me that for a home.
I begin to fancy you don't like me. How strange!
I wish I were a girl again, half savage and hardy, and free, and laughing at injuries, not maddening under them!
He is scarcely a degree dearer to her than her dog, or her horse.
The thing that irks me most is this shattered prison, after all. I'm tired, tired of being enclosed here.
Treachery and violence are spears pointed at both ends - they wound those who resort to them worse than their enemies.
Oh, if God would but give me strength to strangle him in my last agony, I'd go to hell with joy.
My cousin fancies you are an idiot.
The kinder he was treated, the more tedious and selfish he'd be!
He said the pleasantest manner of spending a hot July day was lying from morning till evening on a bank of heath in the middle of the moors.
I wanted all to sparkle and dance in a glorious jubilee. I said his heaven would be only half alive, and he said mine would be drunk.
He's such a cobweb, a pinch would annihilate him.
I don't care for striking - I can't take the trouble to raise my hand!
I am too idle to destroy for nothing.
I have neither a fear, nor a presentiment, nor a hope of death. Why should I?
I have a single wish, and my whole being and faculties are yearning to attain it.
My confessions have not relieved me - but they may account for some otherwise unaccountable phases of humour which I show.
I've done no injustice, and I repent of nothing. I'm too happy, and yet I'm not happy enough.
Vain are the thousand creeds that move men's hearts: unutterably vain.